Phase 1: Game components design

    This project began by making an important decision: how to encode blocks and the board. 
    I decided to go with numpy arrays, as the core logic of the game is mostly matrix element operations. 
    It was also a bonus that numpy is fast with this type of math, which I figured would come in handy during the
    machine learning phase later on. Thus, the board is encoded as an 8x8 2D matrix, and each block is encoded as
    a square matrix of varying sizes (each block type specifying where the 1s and 0s are). The thought process is 
    that adding a block to the board simply entails adding the block elementwise to a subsection of the board,
    this subsection defined by a set of coordinates indicating where the top left corner of the block matrix goes.

Phase 2: Game logic implementation (concurrent with Terminal mode)

    Now that the blocks and board design decision has been made, it is time to implement the logic. This involved 
    starting with the most basic operations and iterating upon those. For example, add_block(block) began by
    adding the elements of the block matrix to the upper-left subsection of the board matix. After this, I was able
    to add a location parameter, specifying any subsection of the board that I wanted to add the block to.
    Then, I needed to handle invalid locations (out of bounds). Then, I prevented adding a block in a location
    where the block would overlap with a previously placed block (i.e., after adding, at least one "2" exists on 
    the board). I decided to simply implement a boolean fail flag to add_block indicating whether or not the block
    was successfully placed. After this, I implemented update_board() which provided the functionality to clear
    full rows or columns. This would be called at the end of every move. 
    With all this logic in place, I defined a game class that has three block attributes and a board attribute. 
    The three blocks get reset once all three of them get used, and each can only get used once. 
    Then, I implemented a check_game_over(). This gave me more trouble than I expected, as it required a complex
    boolean statement checking each of the current block's ability to be placed on the board (complicated by the
    fact that some of the blocks could be null).

Phase 3: Running the Game from Terminal

    Running the game from the terminal was easy to implement, but is cumbersome to play. Because playing from
    the terminal was the first method of playing the game that I implemented, most of the effort applied to 
    implement the terminal game was related to building the core game logic. However, two factors were 
    considered that were uniquely related to the terminal implementation: How to specify a user's block choice
    and location choice. I ended up making an arbitrary decision.

Phase 4: Implementing GUI

    For this phase, I almost entirely used AI. I used Github copilot (which used GPT 5.6 I think?) to look at the terminal game functionality and
    recreate the logic, this time embedded into a tkinter GUI. I looked through the code it made and adjusted some
    of the details.

Phase 5: Machine Learning 

    This is the big phase and the core reason for doing this project. I am coming in as an absolute noobie of ML 
    and this is meant to help me learn. Therefore, I do not expect to have a hyper-optimized model that is 
    industry standard, but I do want to learn enough to choose a reasonable model and model parameters. I will split
    this phase up into subphases.

    Subphase 1: Learning the basics

        I've taken a class on probability and statistics, so I feel that I am not starting totally from scratch. I 
        am first going to skim through https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/machine-learning/machine-learning-tutorial/, a
        basic machine learning tutorial for beginners. A lot of the earlier stuff I can skim over (e.g. python basics,
        probability basics, etc.). 
        I realize that the best ML schema for this task is some form of reinforcement leanring. I calculated that 
        there exists something like 2.5*10^25 state action pairs (if I did my math correctly). This is too many to employ an 
        entire Q-table of every state action pair, so I will need to take a different approach. However, in the 
        meantime I can reduce the board size to a 3x3 and only use blocks that can fit into a 2x2 matrix. This 
        yields a total of about 7.7*10^6 state action pairs, a bit more acceptable for an exuastive Q-table.
        
    Subphase 2: Implementing Tabular Q-learning model on 3x3 game

        While I know that the 8x8 game mode will not be able to use this strategy, I wanted to get more familiar with
        reinforcement learning at a smaller scale so that I would have a better sense of what I am doing at the large
        scale.